# Step iterator

_[data/array/Step iterator]_

---

Iterates over the items of an array, asynchronously.<br>
<br>
Tags are controlled:<br>
<br>
On receiving the array, the node sends out the first item (if any) using a nested tag. (":0" appended to the original tag.)<br>
<br>
Subsequent items will be sent out on receiving signals on `next`, with incremented tags.<br>

---

__Keywords__: foreach

### Input ports

* __array__: ` any[] `

    Sets up iteration and sends out the first item and index 0 with an iterable tag based on the original tag.<br>
    <br>
    When the array has only one or zero elements, a signal with the same tag will also be sent through `done`.<br>
    <br>
    Example:<br>
    [1,2,3]<br>


* __next__: ` any `

    Triggers sending out the next item and index, or, when there are no more items, the done signal.<br>
    <br>
    Tags on signals received through `next` are expected to be iterable, and identical to the tag sent out for the previous item. (This allows for simple loopbacks between `item` and `next`.)<br>
    <br>
    Tags on signals sent out on `item` and `index` are incremented versions of what was received through `next`.<br>
    <br>
    Example:<br>
    0<br>

### Output ports

* __item__: ` any[][number] `

    Sends the next item in the array.<br>
    <br>
    Tags are iterable, and nested versions of the tag of the received array. (If the array tag was "start", item tags will be "start:0", "start:1", etc.)<br>
    <br>
    Example:<br>
    1<br>


* __index__: ` number `

    Sends the next index in the array.<br>
    <br>
    Tags are iterable, and nested versions of the tag of the received array. (If the array tag was "start", item tags will be "start:0", "start:1", etc.)<br>
    <br>
    Example:<br>
    0<br>


* __done__: ` any[] `

    Sends out the iterated array when there are no more items in the array and a signal received through `next`, or, when an array is received through `array` that has one or 0 items.<br>
    <br>
    The tag of the outgoing signal matches that of he original array.<br>
    <br>
    Example:<br>
    [1,2,3]<br>


* __bounced__: ` any `

    Sends any `next` signal that didn't satisfy the iterable tag requirement.<br>
    <br>

