# DELETE handler

_[io/http/express/DELETE handler]_

---

Receives DELETE requests on the specified route and dispatches the corresponding response.<br>
<br>
Example:<br>
1. "my-express-server"@0 received on `app ID`<br>
2. "/users/"@0 received on `route`<br>
3. a client DELETE request received by express with URL "http://api.mydomain.com/users/2<br>
4. the following signals are sent to other node(s) processing the request<br>
- {<br>
 "accept": "application/json"<br>
}@0 sent on `headers`<br>
- {}@0 sent `body`<br>
5. The following signals are received back from processing nodes and sent out to the client:<br>
- 200@0 on `status`,<br>
- {<br>
    "content-type": "application/json" <br>
  }@0 on `headers`,<br>
-  { id:2, "name": "John Doe", "age": 29 }@0 on `body`<br>
6. null@0 sent on `done`<br>

---

__Keywords__: api, request, response

### Input ports

* __app ID__: ` string `


    The id of the express instance.<br>
    <br>
    Example: <br>
    "my-express-server"<br>


* __route__: ` (string or string[]) `


    Receives the route(s) to handle requests for. Route be specified as exact match (1) or as pattern match (2).<br>
    <br>
    Example:<br>
    1) "/status" will just match "/status"<br>
    2) "/s*s" will match "status", "shoes", etc..<br>


* __status__: ` number `


    Receives the HTTP status code to be sent with the response to the client.<br>
    <br>
    Example: <br>
    200<br>


* __headers__: ` {string: string} `


    Receives the HTTP headers to be sent with the response to the client.<br>
    <br>
    Example: <br>
    {<br>
      "content-type": "application/json"<br>
    }<br>


* __body__: ` any `


    Receives the content to send to the client as response body.<br>
    <br>
    Example:<br>
    - "OK"<br>
    - 3.14<br>
    - { "status": "OK" }<br>

### Output ports

* __headers__: ` {string: string} `


    Forwards  the headers of the request to be processed.<br>
    <br>
    Example: <br>
    {<br>
      "content-type": "application/json"<br>
    }<br>


* __body__: ` any `


    Forwards the body of the request to be processed.<br>
    <br>
    Example:<br>
    - "OK"<br>
    - 3.14<br>
    - { "status": "OK" }<br>


* __done__: ` any `


    Event triggered when the request has been processed.<br>

