# Step iterator (manual tags)

_[data/array/Step iterator (manual tags)]_

---

Iterates over the items of an array asynchronously.<br>
<br>
On receiving the array, the node sends out the first item (if any) using the same tag.<br>
<br>
Subsequent items will be sent out on receiving signals on `next`, using the same tag.<br>

---

### Input ports

* __array__: ` any[] `


    Sets up iteration and sends out the first item and index 0 with the tag associated with the received array.<br>
    When the array has only one or zero elements, a signal will also be sent through `done`. <br>
    <br>
    Example:<br>
    ["A","B","C"]<br>


* __next__: ` any `


    Triggers sending out the next item and index, or, when there are no more items, the done signal.<br>
    <br>
    Signals sent out on `item` and `index` bear the same tag as the signal received through `next`.<br>
    <br>
    Example:<br>
    0<br>

### Output ports

* __item__: ` any[][number] `


    The next item in the array.<br>
    <br>
    The first item (index 0) bears the tag of the received array, subsequent items bear the tag of the corresponding signals received through `next`.<br>
    <br>
    Example:<br>
    "A"<br>


* __index__: ` number `


    The next index in the array.<br>
    <br>
    The first index (0) bears the tag of the received array, subsequent indexes bear the tag of the corresponding signals received through `next`.<br>
    <br>
    Example:<br>
    0<br>


* __done__: ` any[] `


    Sends out the iterated array when there are no more items in the array and a signal was received through `next`, or, when an array was received through `array` that has one or 0 items.<br>
    <br>
    The tag of the outgoing signal matches that of he original array.<br>
    <br>
    Example:<br>
    ["A","B","C"]<br>

### Dependencies




