# Express endpoint creator (simplified)

_[scripting/actions/Express endpoint creator (simplified)]_

---

Sets up a route for Express to receive requests on. Routes are expected to follow a format as per Express documentation.<br>
<br>
Receiving `state` and `params` inputs initializes the route. Once the route is inialized, incoming requests will be sent out on `request`, and corresponding responses will be expected on `response`, bearing the same tag.<br>
<br>
Example:<br>
1. {}@0 received via state<br>
2. {<br>
  "cwd": "express",<br>
  "method": "GET",<br>
  "route": "/status"<br>
}@0 is received via `params`<br>
3. State with route information added is sent via `state`<br>
4. An arbitrary GET request comes in via `request`<br>
5. {"status": 200, "headers": {}, "body": "OK"}@1 is received via `response`<br>
6. The received response is sent to the client.<br>
<br>
Links:<br>
* https://expressjs.com/en/guide/routing.html<br>

---

### Input ports

* __state__: ` any `


    Receives script state.<br>


* __params__: 
    ```
    {"cwd" :string, "method" :("GET" or "POST" or "PUT" or "PATCH" or "DELETE"), "route" :string, "app-id" :string}
    ```


    Receives method and route to match incoming requests against. Also specifies which running Express server instance to use via 'app-id'. The parameter 'app-id' must match the ID of a previously started Express server.<br>


* __response__: 
    ```
    {"status" :number, "headers" :{string: string}, "body" :any}
    ```


    Receives the response for a corresponding request prepared by the logic that connects `request` to `response`.<br>
    <br>
    Properties:<br>
    * 'status' specifies HTTP status code<br>
    * 'headers' list HTTP response headers<br>
    * 'body' specifies the body of the response. Format potentially depends on middlewares.<br>

### Output ports

* __state__: ` any `


    Sends updated script state.<br>


* __request__: 
    ```
    {"baseUrl" :string, "body" :any, "cookies" :any, "hostname" :string, "headers" :{string: string}, "ip" :string, "ips" :string[], "method" :("GET" or "POST" or "PUT" or "PATCH" or "DELETE"), "originalUrl" :string, "params" :{string: string}, "path" :string, "protocol" :("http" or "https"), "query" :{string: any}, "route" :string, "secure" :boolean, "signedCookies" :any, "stale" :boolean, "subdomains" :string[], "xhr" :boolean}
    ```


    Sends incoming requests matching the route and method received via `params`.<br>

